content/fedora-setup.md, before:

---
title: Fedora setup
---

Done with Fedora 39 *KDE spin* on my desktop. Kind of a build log. Since I don't do much productive things nowadays, this is optimised around laziness and not-actually-a-nice tiling-fancy-thing. See [my older Fedora setup build log thing](/fedora-setup-i3/) for that.

## Initial setup (Anaconda)

LVM, using Custom. / (root) with the default 70G, /home with the rest. EFI partitions left as is, /boot and /boot/efi.

Hostname is set, admin user for self is set up.

## Post install

### KDE settings

- Display: Configured as per required refresh rate, with FreeSync off (unforunately my monitor brightness-flickers)
- Mouse: Flat acceleration curve
- Keyboard:
  - Hardware: Delay 200ms, Rate 45/s
  - Advanced: Configure keyboard options checked. Caps Lock behavior -> Make Caps Lock an additional Esc
- Night Color: Sunset/sunrise at current location
- SDDM: Apply Plasma Settings (do this at end to ensure settings applied for lock screen)

### DNF config and update

Tune settings to be faster before update. `sudo vi /etc/dnf/dnf.conf`

```
max_parallel_downloads=10
fastestmirror=True
deltarpm=1
install_weak_deps=False
```

Then `sudo dnf update` to grab the latest updates.

### Key packages

Install with dnf:

```
$ sudo dnf install \
    neovim \
    git \
    kitty
```

### Usual packages

My COPR repo:

```
$ sudo dnf copr enable nicholastay/nexpkg
```

Good to have RPMFusion so can get extra multimedia things and more:

```
$ sudo dnf install https://mirrors.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://mirrors.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm
```

Install with dnf:

```
# Multimedia, swap to use RPMFusion versions (freeworld/nonfree)
$ sudo dnf install @Multimedia --best --allowerasing

# General Tools
$ sudo dnf install \
    @'Development Tools' \
    zsh \
    zsh-syntax-highlighting \
    zsh-autosuggestions \
    mpv \
    ripgrep

# My COPR
$ sudo dnf install \
    belluzj-fantasque-sans-mono-fonts \
    passgen
```

### Flatpak Flathub

I use this for annoying off-the-shelf type of apps:

```
$ flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://dl.flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo

# At time of writing, the main mirror (Fastly CDN) was being really bad on my internet.
# I only found a China alternative, which was funnily enough, faster. Here it is in case.
$ sudo flatpak remote-modify flathub --url=https://mirror.sjtu.edu.cn/flathub
```

Misc apps:

```
$ flatpak install \
    com.discordapp.Discord \
    org.signal.Signal
```

### AppImage

Occasionally things will be distributed this way and it's whatever. I use AppImageLauncher to integrate it into KDE launcher: https://github.com/TheAssassin/AppImageLauncher/releases - install RPM, then double clicking AppImage files will prompt to register.

- Bitwarden: No official flatpak and I don't want to use a password manager without it being legit - https://vault.bitwarden.com/download/?app=desktop&platform=linux

### Install dotfiles

TODO: Git repo

### Set shell

The Zoomer Shell

```
$ chsh -s /bin/zsh $USER
```

### Set up CJK input

I sometimes have a need to type all 3 of Chinese/Japanese/Korean. Under Wayland, IBus seems to suck (had issues such as key repeat breaking, bad UI/hotkey, etc). So I use Fcitx5, and haven't had a problem!

(fcitx5 = input itself, kcm-fcitx5 = KDE integration, then Chinese / Korean (Hangul) / Japanese (Anthy))

```
$ sudo dnf install \
    fcitx5 \
    kcm-fcitx5 \
    fcitx5-chinese-addons \
    fcitx5-hangul \
    fcitx5-anthy
```

Then, in Settings:

- Input Devices -> Virtual Keyboard: Fcitx 5
- Regional Settings -> Input Method (Fcitx 5)
    - Add Input Method:
        - 简体中文 (中文) - Pinyin
        - Korean - Hangul
        - Japanese - Anthy
    - Global Options:
        - Trigger Input Method: Switch to Super+Space
        - Temporarily switch between: Add Right Alt
        - Remove 'Group' hotkeys

## Misc notes

Other useful tips/tricks/utilities, I guess.

### Audio EQ/Effects

For my mic, I want compressor and EQ to help. `sudo dnf install easyeffects`

### Installing fonts

Place fonts (OTF recommended) into `~/.local/share/fonts`, then reload with `fc-cache -fv`.

### Disabling GRUB boot menu

When another OS is detected via the prober, it will force showing boot menu every time. We can tell system to ignore this:

```
$ sudo grub2-editenv - set menu_auto_hide=2

# Verify
$ sudo grub2-editenv - list
```

### Wake-on-LAN

I typically shut down my PC, but have a server to hop back into the network and sometimes want to wake my PC to do something. NetworkManager has a way to enable WoL for a connection:

```
$ nmcli connection modify 'Wired connection 1' 802-3-ethernet.wake-on-lan magic
```

Then, reboot **twice** (it starts working on the second shutdown -- Arch's wiki was, of course, right!).

### Running SDDM (lock screen/greeter) on Wayland

As per Arch wiki, `/etc/sddm.conf.d/10-wayland.conf`:

```
[General]
DisplayServer=wayland
GreeterEnvironment=QT_WAYLAND_SHELL_INTEGRATION=layer-shell

[Wayland]
CompositorCommand=kwin_wayland --drm --no-lockscreen --no-global-shortcuts --locale1
```

## Game notes

Various stuff to get game things working

#### WineASIO with PipeWire JACK

See post, [Getting WineASIO to work](/2024/01/06/wineasio)

#### Connect PS5 (DualSense) controller 'raw' in WINE/Proton

See post, [Wine + 'proper' DualSense (PS5) controller support via hidraw](/2024/01/21/wine-dualsense)

Commit message:

Update fedora setup details
- dotcafe now exists (lol)
- MS Fonts note
- DDC/CI note

content/fedora-setup.md, after:

---
title: Fedora setup
---

Done with Fedora 39 *KDE spin* on my desktop. Kind of a build log. Since I don't do much productive things nowadays, this is optimised around laziness and not-actually-a-nice tiling-fancy-thing. See [my older Fedora setup build log thing](/fedora-setup-i3/) for that.

## Initial setup (Anaconda)

LVM, using Custom. / (root) with the default 70G, /home with the rest. EFI partitions left as is, /boot and /boot/efi.

Hostname is set, admin user for self is set up.

## Post install

### KDE settings

- Display: Configured as per required refresh rate, with FreeSync off (unforunately my monitor brightness-flickers)
- Mouse: Flat acceleration curve
- Keyboard:
  - Hardware: Delay 200ms, Rate 45/s
  - Advanced: Configure keyboard options checked. Caps Lock behavior -> Make Caps Lock an additional Esc
- Night Color: Sunset/sunrise at current location
- SDDM: Apply Plasma Settings (do this at end to ensure settings applied for lock screen)

### DNF config and update

Tune settings to be faster before update. `sudo vi /etc/dnf/dnf.conf`

```
max_parallel_downloads=10
fastestmirror=True
deltarpm=1
install_weak_deps=False
```

Then `sudo dnf update` to grab the latest updates.

### Key packages

Install with dnf:

```
$ sudo dnf install \
    neovim \
    git \
    kitty
```

### Usual packages

My COPR repo:

```
$ sudo dnf copr enable nicholastay/nexpkg
```

Good to have RPMFusion so can get extra multimedia things and more:

```
$ sudo dnf install https://mirrors.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://mirrors.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm
```

Install with dnf:

```
# Multimedia, swap to use RPMFusion versions (freeworld/nonfree)
$ sudo dnf install @Multimedia --best --allowerasing

# General Tools
$ sudo dnf install \
    @'Development Tools' \
    zsh \
    zsh-syntax-highlighting \
    zsh-autosuggestions \
    mpv \
    ripgrep

# My COPR
$ sudo dnf install \
    belluzj-fantasque-sans-mono-fonts \
    passgen
```

### Flatpak Flathub

I use this for annoying off-the-shelf type of apps:

```
$ flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://dl.flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo

# At time of writing, the main mirror (Fastly CDN) was being really bad on my internet.
# I only found a China alternative, which was funnily enough, faster. Here it is in case.
$ sudo flatpak remote-modify flathub --url=https://mirror.sjtu.edu.cn/flathub
```

Misc apps:

```
$ flatpak install \
    com.discordapp.Discord \
    org.signal.Signal
```

### AppImage

Occasionally things will be distributed this way and it's whatever. I use AppImageLauncher to integrate it into KDE launcher: https://github.com/TheAssassin/AppImageLauncher/releases - install RPM, then double clicking AppImage files will prompt to register.

- Bitwarden: No official flatpak and I don't want to use a password manager without it being legit - https://vault.bitwarden.com/download/?app=desktop&platform=linux

### Install dotfiles

Repo: https://github.com/nicholastay/dotcafe

```
$ git clone --bare https://github.com/nicholastay/dotcafe.git $HOME/.dotcafe.git
$ rm .bashrc .bash_profile
$ git --git-dir=$HOME/.dotcafe.git/ --work-tree=$HOME checkout
```

### Set shell

The Zoomer Shell

```
$ chsh -s /bin/zsh $USER
```

### Set up CJK input

I sometimes have a need to type all 3 of Chinese/Japanese/Korean. Under Wayland, IBus seems to suck (had issues such as key repeat breaking, bad UI/hotkey, etc). So I use Fcitx5, and haven't had a problem!

(fcitx5 = input itself, kcm-fcitx5 = KDE integration, then Chinese / Korean (Hangul) / Japanese (Anthy))

```
$ sudo dnf install \
    fcitx5 \
    kcm-fcitx5 \
    fcitx5-chinese-addons \
    fcitx5-hangul \
    fcitx5-anthy
```

Then, in Settings:

- Input Devices -> Virtual Keyboard: Fcitx 5
- Regional Settings -> Input Method (Fcitx 5)
    - Add Input Method:
        - 简体中文 (中文) - Pinyin
        - 日本語 - Anthy
        - 한국어 - Hangul
    - Global Options:
        - Trigger Input Method: Switch to Super+Space
        - Temporarily switch between: Add Right Alt
        - Remove 'Group' hotkeys

## Misc notes

Other useful tips/tricks/utilities, I guess.

### Audio EQ/Effects

For my mic, I want compressor and EQ to help. `sudo dnf install easyeffects`

### Installing fonts

Place fonts (OTF recommended) into `~/.local/share/fonts`, then reload with `fc-cache -fv`.

For Microsoft Fonts (web compatibility, etc) there is mscorefonts2: https://mscorefonts2.sourceforge.net/ (requires copy of Windows system files).

### Disabling GRUB boot menu

When another OS is detected via the prober, it will force showing boot menu every time. We can tell system to ignore this:

```
$ sudo grub2-editenv - set menu_auto_hide=2

# Verify
$ sudo grub2-editenv - list
```

### Wake-on-LAN

I typically shut down my PC, but have a server to hop back into the network and sometimes want to wake my PC to do something. NetworkManager has a way to enable WoL for a connection:

```
$ nmcli connection modify 'Wired connection 1' 802-3-ethernet.wake-on-lan magic
```

Then, reboot **twice** (it starts working on the second shutdown -- Arch's wiki was, of course, right!).

### Running SDDM (lock screen/greeter) on Wayland

As per Arch wiki, `/etc/sddm.conf.d/10-wayland.conf`:

```
[General]
DisplayServer=wayland
GreeterEnvironment=QT_WAYLAND_SHELL_INTEGRATION=layer-shell

[Wayland]
CompositorCommand=kwin_wayland --drm --no-lockscreen --no-global-shortcuts --locale1
```

### External monitor brightness control in KDE

DDC/CI is actually supported in KDE via libddcutil. The default Fedora KDE spin doesn't come with ddcutil itself though.

```
$ sudo dnf install ddcutil
```

This will also ship the correct udev rules and kernel module loading (i2c-dev) to get it to work. Reboot after install.

(Only one monitor seems to be working at the moment. Supposedly this could change with Plasma 6.)

## Game notes

Various stuff to get game things working

#### WineASIO with PipeWire JACK

See post, [Getting WineASIO to work](/2024/01/06/wineasio)

#### Connect PS5 (DualSense) controller 'raw' in WINE/Proton

See post, [Wine + 'proper' DualSense (PS5) controller support via hidraw](/2024/01/21/wine-dualsense)
