content/post/2022-02-10-redesign.md, before:

---
date: "2022-02-10T18:17:52+11:00"
tags:
    - jekyll
    - website
title: New year, new... website redesign.
---

I'm finally back... and the whole website now looks different! And we're also CC-BY-SA + BSD-2-Clause open source (see bottom of page)!

To be honest, I've been meaning to write some more posts about some of the random bits and pieces I found when working on various things, both at work and personally. I do have a list of things to write up about! But, I guess I hold myself to too high of a standard, and don't really want to write blog posts that are too short and don't 'properly' convey a point. I'll work towards putting that aside and posting more this year -- more to come (hopefully).

So, why the redesign? Well, I was always pretty unhappy with the homepage. As I was shifting more towards a simplistic, more document-like website, which is viewable as a *page* (not as a design piece(?)), the more I really didn't like the vertical and horizontal centred `div` element. Now I'm a lot happier, and we are back to a light theme (haha). On the Jekyll side, I've also consolidated all of the site into one nice, neat layout -- hooray! Again, I am just leveraging it as a simple templating system that works on GitHub Pages -- I just need something to copy and paste repetitive elements for me.

As for the layout and design, I was inspired by [David Malan's website](https://cs.harvard.edu/malan/) and [Drew DeVault's blog](https://drewdevault.com/). Just a plain layout, with a navigation-sort-of static bit on the left, and the content on the right. I am no UX designer, so coming up with my own novel ideas is not my field, but I have to say I'm pretty happy with the result. If there are any accessibility issues though, **please let me know**! I would love to improve this area; it is actually a goal of mine to ensure it is so -- half so more people can access the page easily, but it also is fun to remain fully compatible!

On the compatible part... this is why I love just keeping it **simple**. All too many times, especially for a simple portfolio*-ish* page like this, we're pulling in React, Vue, etc. That isn't my intention and I love quick, snappy pages that get to the point and just load. Hey, this website is perfectly usable on a text-based browser, look!:

![This website, as viewed in Lynx](/static/post-img/202202-lynx.jpg)

Pretty awesome, right? Well, here it is on Windows 98 SE, Internet Explorer (not perfect, but very usable):

![This website, as viewed in W98 SE IE](/static/post-img/202202-w98.jpg)

...and also on a Nintendo 3DS (yeah, I know this is actually decently modern, lol):

![This website, as viewed in 3DS](/static/post-img/202202-3ds.jpg)

Hope you enjoyed those glimpses into my irrational obsession with keeping my website accessible on almost anything. I am looking into [Gemini](https://gemini.circumlunar.space/) and/or [Gopher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gopher_(protocol)), and will see if I can use Jekyll to auto-generate these posts on there too -- I think it'd be pretty neat just as an alternative protocol, because what even is the web in 2022? (I think I'm just sick of the Wéb-Three talk everywhere... :&lt; look I'm trying to avoid mentioning it just in case...)

Anyways, I'll really be trying to post more this year!

Commit message:

Add image figure caption support + captions + some image licence
Some images I will license under CC as I decide. I figured this would
probably be the most appropriate way to go about it, but this then
prompted caption support for images. Noticed that figures might be the
way to go.

Turns out Hugo has a great Markdown templating system that allows custom
templates for elements such as images! Not sure if Jekyll had this but
definitely cool to see here. Thanks Sebastian De Deyne for this post
https://sebastiandedeyne.com/captioned-images-with-markdown-render-hooks-in-hugo/,
essentially showed me an awesome, neat way to handle captions with the
"title" field!

content/post/2022-02-10-redesign.md, after:

---
date: "2022-02-10T18:17:52+11:00"
tags:
    - jekyll
    - website
title: New year, new... website redesign.
---

I'm finally back... and the whole website now looks different! And we're also CC-BY-SA + BSD-2-Clause open source (see bottom of page)!

To be honest, I've been meaning to write some more posts about some of the random bits and pieces I found when working on various things, both at work and personally. I do have a list of things to write up about! But, I guess I hold myself to too high of a standard, and don't really want to write blog posts that are too short and don't 'properly' convey a point. I'll work towards putting that aside and posting more this year -- more to come (hopefully).

So, why the redesign? Well, I was always pretty unhappy with the homepage. As I was shifting more towards a simplistic, more document-like website, which is viewable as a *page* (not as a design piece(?)), the more I really didn't like the vertical and horizontal centred `div` element. Now I'm a lot happier, and we are back to a light theme (haha). On the Jekyll side, I've also consolidated all of the site into one nice, neat layout -- hooray! Again, I am just leveraging it as a simple templating system that works on GitHub Pages -- I just need something to copy and paste repetitive elements for me.

As for the layout and design, I was inspired by [David Malan's website](https://cs.harvard.edu/malan/) and [Drew DeVault's blog](https://drewdevault.com/). Just a plain layout, with a navigation-sort-of static bit on the left, and the content on the right. I am no UX designer, so coming up with my own novel ideas is not my field, but I have to say I'm pretty happy with the result. If there are any accessibility issues though, **please let me know**! I would love to improve this area; it is actually a goal of mine to ensure it is so -- half so more people can access the page easily, but it also is fun to remain fully compatible!

On the compatible part... this is why I love just keeping it **simple**. All too many times, especially for a simple portfolio*-ish* page like this, we're pulling in React, Vue, etc. That isn't my intention and I love quick, snappy pages that get to the point and just load. Hey, this website is perfectly usable on a text-based browser, look!:

![Lynx Web Browser navigated to this website with all HTML elements rendering decently](/static/post-img/202202-lynx.jpg "This website, open in Lynx Web Browser{{< cc >}}")

Pretty awesome, right? Well, here it is on Windows 98 SE, Internet Explorer (not perfect, but very usable):

![Windows 98 SE Internet Explorer 5 navigated to this website; sidebar navigation elements are a little misaligned, but general page layout looks correct and is usable](/static/post-img/202202-w98.jpg "Windows 98 SE, Internet Explorer 5")

...and also on a Nintendo 3DS (yeah, I know this is actually decently modern, lol):

![This website, as viewed on a Nintendo 3DS; mobile page layout is active and the only defect is the dot points not rendering properly](/static/post-img/202202-3ds.jpg "Nintendo 3DS Web Browser, latest firmware as of posting")

Hope you enjoyed those glimpses into my irrational obsession with keeping my website accessible on almost anything. I am looking into [Gemini](https://gemini.circumlunar.space/) and/or [Gopher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gopher_(protocol)), and will see if I can use Jekyll to auto-generate these posts on there too -- I think it'd be pretty neat just as an alternative protocol, because what even is the web in 2022? (I think I'm just sick of the Wéb-Three talk everywhere... :&lt; look I'm trying to avoid mentioning it just in case...)

Anyways, I'll really be trying to post more this year!
